Stage 1 Essay

This week on HackBio's Data Visualization with R

First I learned about some basic R syntax including how to assign values to variable and taking note some of the illegal variable names. Then I explored more on the data types and structures. I learned how to manually create a dataframe or by combining multiple vectors. Then, I was able to import and play around the bacteria dataset which have columns of different types. Next, I learned about loops and conditions and created custom function that calculate the percentage of GC content in a nucleotide sequence. I also explored some built-in functions in R and install some R packages.

For the second task of the assignment, we are asked to make a function that calculates the molecular weight of any protein. The first step is to ask for input protein 'input_protein'. This could be any sequence of letters and I assume it can either be in upper or lower case. Since we want our function to be robust and consider upper and lower case as the same, I converted the input_protein to upper case first because in the reference table, there is only a column with upper case values. I also initialized the value of weight to zero so that it resets every time the function is being called. Then, the character values of input_protein are split into single values. Next is we need to iterate for each character or amino acid in the protein sequence and see if it is in our reference table. If it exists there, the value of weight will be updated by adding the weight of the current amino acid. This process will repeat for every amino acid present in the sequence. Finally, it will return the value of the updated weight divided by 1000 so the unit will be on kilodaltons. 